12 Wherefore, seeing we also are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses,
let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us,
and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
13 Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith,
who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame,
and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
14 For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself,
lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.
15 Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
16 And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son,
despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him.
17 For whom the Lord loveth, he chastineth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
18 If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons,
for what son is he whom the Father chastineth not?
19 But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all our partakers,
then are ye bastards and not sons?
20 Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh, which corrected us, and we gave them reverence,
shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of Spirits and live?
21 For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure,
but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
22 Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous.
Nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them,
which are exercised thereby.
23 Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees,
and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is laying be turned out of the way,
but let it rather be healed.
24 Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.
25 Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness,
bringing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled.
Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one more slim meat sold his
birthright. For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing,
he was rejected, for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully
with tears. For ye are not come unto the mouth that might be touched, and that burnt with fire,
nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of
words, which voiced they, that heard and treated, that the word should not be spoken to them
any more. For they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast touch
the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart. And so terrible was the
sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. But ye are come unto Mount Sion,
and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,
to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven,
and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the mediator
of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh, for if they escape not who refused him that spake on earth,
much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven,
whose voice then shook the earth. But now he hath promised saying, yet once more I shake not the
earth only, but also heaven. And this word yet once more signifyeth the removing of those things
that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may
serve God acceptably, with reverence and godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire.
Chapter 13. Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby
some have entertained angels unawares. Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them,
and them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body. Marriage is
horrible in all, and the bed undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have,
for he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say,
The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Remember them which have
ruled over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end
of their conversation. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and today, and forever. Be not carried
about with divers and strange doctrines, for it is a good thing that the heart be established
with grace, not with meat, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. We have an
tabernacle. For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high
priest for sin, are burned without the camp. Wherefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify
the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. Let us go forth therefore unto him
without the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of
our lips giving thanks to his name. But to do good and to communicate forget not, for with such
sacrifices God is well pleased. Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves,
for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy and
not with grief. For that is unprofitable for you. Pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience
in all things willing to live honestly. But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be
restored to you the sooner. Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus,
that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing
in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. And I beseech you,
brethren, suffer the word of exhortation, for I have written a letter unto you in few words.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty, with whom if he come shortly I will see you.
Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints, they of Italy salute you.
Grace be with you all. Amen.